# Project Summary 
Treatments done at a Water treatment plant(WTP) are elaborate environmental techniques that are challenging to manage. It may vary slightly at different locations, depending on the technology of the plant and the water it needs to process, but the basic principles are essentially the same. As the WTP is complex, traditional laboratory methods and mathematical models have limitations in optimizing this type of operation. To address this issue, we will utilize machine learning and deep learning methods to provide various solutions for WTP optimization. For this project, we are utilizing a dataset related to the water treatment of the Town of Grand Falls company, Windsor. This dataset covers the years from 2009 to 2015 and 2019 to 2023. It includes data on compounds and chemicals that can dissolve in water, such as aluminum and chlorine, and information about water properties like hardness, pH, and conductivity. Also, this dataset includes measurements of each attribute at different stages of water treatment, including the ** Raw, Filter, Finish steps, etc. **

Our team conducted research and met with the development manager of the company.

## Based on the initial research we aim to identify relationships between
features such as 
1. Color and Turbidity 
2. UVA and turbidity 
3. UVT and turbidity 
4. pH and temperature 

We can use statistical methods such as the Pearson correlation coefficient or the Spearman rank correlation coefficient to find the correlation between the above attributes. We can also visualize the correlation using a scatter plot to see their relationship. Furthermore, we can cluster the water samples based on their similar characteristics. This can help us identify patterns or relationships in the data that may be useful for deciding the water treatment process. This can be done using clustering methods such as K-Means and Hierarchical Clustering. K-Means can cluster the water samples based on their similar values for the different attributes, such as pH, chlorine, temperature, etc. K means clustering is also helpful in detecting anomalies, identifying trends, or making predictions. Also, using Hierarchical Clustering, we can visualize the relationships between the different water samples in a dendrogram. The closer the samples are to each other, the more similar their attributes are.

Besides, we can classify the samples based on their attributes or characteristics to predict which sample is healthy and which is hazardous. Different classification methods can be used for this purpose. For example, if we want to predict based on the levels of specific attributes (e.g., pH, chlorine, temperature, color), decision trees or random forest may be appropriate methods for classification. On the other hand, if the definition of healthy and hazardous water is more complex and depends on multiple attributes, neural networks or support vector machines (SVM) may be more appropriate. These methods can capture complex patterns and relationships among attributes and handle non-linear relationships between the attributes and the class labels.
